# Ethics in Tech

## Ethics in the Workplace

I read the article labeled as "Google and AI" which is called, "The employee backlash over Google's censored search engine for China, explained" by Vox.com. The article summarizes a conflict form within Google after a employee exposed a project that Google started with the Chinese government which helps them censor the internet content that its citizens can search for. The project is said to censor the people from searching for things like human rights, peaceful protests, democracy and many other topics that the Chinese government does not want its citizens to search for. I think it is important for us to stand up for what we believe in and to not oppress others. We as a country believe in freedom on many different levels and have faught in two World Wars to free oppressed people we cannot support the diliberate oppression of others. Another intersting topic to research would be how bad is this censorship getting in the United States as well.

## Ethics in Technology

I read the article labeled "Will democracy survive big data and AI?" by Scientific American. The article explaines how quickly data is being captured and analyzed and how it could affect us. It is a great technological achievemnt to create artificial intelligence and when used to solve and automate important problems is remarkable. However, it is also being used to automate societies, and economies without the will of the people. In China, the government already goes as far as to monitor their citizens internet traffic and give each person a citizens score which determines what kind of benefits the government will make available to them. In everything that we do it is important to think of the second and third order consequences of our actions. It seems today we are faced with large companies and governments that do not care about these consequences and pushing artificial intelligence to a point that is beyond returning from, harmful, and unethical. By reading these articles I think one key takeaway for those entering the technology field is to know what you are getting into and stand for what you believe in.
